doc: How to track and handle vulnerabilities. (#300)
pyansys/dev-guide: doc/source/how-to/vulnerabilities.rst

  address vulnerabilities. The priority of vulnerabilities can be escalated internally if they represent
  a roadblock for usage. The Ansys business unit in charge of the project should handle
  vulnerabilities on a case-by-case basis.

- **Vulnerabilities from external package dependencies**: When vulnerabilities exist in external packages
  used by PyAnsys libraries, such as NumPy or Matplotlib, Ansys should not address these vulnerabilities
  directly. Instead, raise an issue on the open source repository, pointing out the
  vulnerability and linking the applicable `CVE`_. At most, be mindful of deprecated packages and functions
  because they may not receive security patches and might introduce vulnerabilities into your codebase.

Vulnerability discovery and tracking
-------------------------------------

Leverage available security tools like dependency scanners or static
analyzers (such as PyUp, Safety, or Bandit) to automatically detect and
remediate security vulnerabilities in Python packages and dependencies.

The PyAnsys ecosystem has implemented automated mechanisms to track and
report vulnerabilities in the codebase. These tools are intended to be integrated

> into the CI/CD pipeline of the repositories.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
into the CI/CD workflow of the repositories.
```

  other tools or to use different versions of the tools in the future.

For third-party packages, the PyAnsys Core team has listed a set of excluded advisories so
that the action does not fail. This is done to avoid false positives and to ensure that the action
does not block the CI/CD pipeline unnecessarily. You can find the list of excluded advisories
in `the action's documentation`_.

For potential vulnerabilities in the codebase, repositories can configure Bandit to ignore specific
advisories. This can be due to the code not being ready yet to be fixed or that the advisory is not relevant
to the codebase. However, it is important to note that ignoring advisories should be done with caution,
and developers should be aware of the potential risks involved. Furthermore, repository maintainers should
document the reasons for ignoring advisories and ensure that they are regularly reviewed to determine if they
can be addressed.

.. note::

  An example on how to document the ignored advisories can be found in the `PyACP security considerations`_
  documentation page. This should be taken as a reference for documenting ignored advisories in other repositories.

.. warning::

>   Testing the action locally before enabling it in the CI/CD pipeline is recommended. Information on how

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Testing the action locally before enabling it in the CI/CD workflow is recommended. Information on how
```

  to do this can be found in `the action's documentation`_.

Vulnerability remediation and reporting
----------------------------------------

When a vulnerability is detected, the action fails and reports the vulnerabilities found in the codebase.

> These vulnerabilities will be reported as draft security advisories in the repository's

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Following that, These vulnerabilities are reported as draft security advisories in the repository's
```

Repositories should also have a process in place to handle vulnerabilities that are reported by users or
other developers. For that purpose, a ``SECURITY.md`` file should be created in the root of the repository.
This file should contain information on how to report vulnerabilities and the process for handling them.

Here is an example of a ``SECURITY.md`` file:

.. code-block:: markdown

  ## Reporting a vulnerability

  > [!CAUTION]
  > Do not use GitHub issues to report any security vulnerabilities.

  If you detect a vulnerability, contact the [PyAnsys Core team](mailto:pyansys.core@ansys.com),
  mentioning the repository and the details of your finding. The team will address it as soon as possible.

 Provide the PyAnsys Core team with this information:

  - Any specific configuration settings needed to reproduce the problem
  - Step-by-step guidance to reproduce the problem
  - The exact location of the problematic source code, including tag, branch, commit, or a direct URL
  - The potential consequences of the vulnerability, along with a description of how an attacker could take advantage of the issue

Vulnerability disclosure
------------------------

> When a vulnerability is detected and a decision is made to address it,, the repository maintainers should

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When a vulnerability is detected and a decision is made to address it, the repository maintainers should
```

> create a private fork of the repository and create a pull request with the fix. This pull request should be

Reviewer: I'm a bit conflicted by the "fork" approach. Since a lot of us require access to the organization secrets to test our packages, this will not work. Can't we simply ask for a PR and not speak about the fork ? Moreover, when a project is public and you fork it, you can't make it private AFAIR

Reviewer 2: The approach should be to create a private fork. For security purposes, while the work is being performed to solve the vulnerability, we should not expose publicly the fact that there is a vulnerability (without a fix). Once the fix is in, then we announce it.

You can create private forks for this purpose -- see https://docs.github.com/en/code-security/security-advisories/working-with-repository-security-advisories/collaborating-in-a-temporary-private-fork-to-resolve-a-repository-security-vulnerability

I might have to add this link to the docs

reviewed in depth and include tests to ensure that the vulnerability is fixed. Once the pull request is
merged, the repository maintainers should create a new release with the fix and update the changelog accordingly.

> The release should be tagged with a new version number, and the changelog should include a note about the

Reviewer: Some project (external to PyAnsys) tend to follow a specific convention when releasing version which patch a vulnerability. For example creating `v0.1.5.1` when the previous release was `v0.1.5`. Should we advise to bump to `v0.1.6` instead ?

Reviewer 2: We should suggest to do a new patch release at the very least -- v0.1.6 following your suggestion.

vulnerability and the fix. The note should include this information:

- The CVE number of the vulnerability (if applicable)
- A description of the vulnerability and its potential consequences
- A description of the fix and how it addresses the vulnerability
- A link to the pull request that fixed the vulnerability

> Additionally, the security advisory should be published on the repository's **Security** tab. This advisory should include the same information as the changelog note. In the advisory, also included the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Additionally, the security advisory should be published on the repository's **Security** tab.
This advisory should include the same information as the changelog note, in other words the
```

CVE number, the date of the advisory, and the status of the advisory (such as published or withdrawn).

A reference of a published security advisory can be found here: `PyAnsys Geometry subprocess advisory`_.
This advisory was published in the PyAnsys Geometry repository and includes information about a vulnerability
in which users could execute arbitrary code on the system by using one of this library's functions.

Ensuring compliance across the PyAnsys ecosystem
------------------------------------------------

> The PyAnsys Core team is responsible for ensuring that the action is up to date and that it is

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The PyAnsys Core team is responsible for ensuring that the ``ansys/actions/check-vulnerabilities`` action is up to date and that it is
```

Vulnerabilities
===============

.. contents::

Vulnerabilities refer to potential security flaws or weaknesses in PyAnsys packages.
Here are some examples of common vulnerabilities:

> - Insufficient input validation or insecure handling of file paths can lead to unauthorized access

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Insufficient input validation or insecure handling of file paths leading to unauthorized access
```

- Insecure code and command injection into the app
- Remote code execution due to deserialization of untrusted code
- Disclosure of sensitive information due to weak exception handling

Vulnerability sources
---------------------

> - **Vulnerabilities from PyAnsys library code**: the maintainers are responsible for deciding whether to

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- **Vulnerabilities from PyAnsys library code**: Maintainers are responsible for deciding whether to
```

  address vulnerabilities. The priority of vulnerabilities can be escalated internally if they represent
  a roadblock for usage. The Ansys business unit in charge of the project should handle
  vulnerabilities on a case-by-case basis.

> - **Vulnerabilities from external package dependencies**: when vulnerabilities exist in external packages
>   used by PyAnsys libraries, such as numpy or matplotlib, Ansys should not address these vulnerabilities
>   directly. Instead, it is best to raise an issue on the open source repository, pointing out the
>   vulnerability and linking the applicable `CVE`_. At most, be mindful of deprecated packages and functions,
>   because they may not receive security patches and might introduce vulnerabilities into your codebase.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- **Vulnerabilities from external package dependencies**: When vulnerabilities exist in external packages
  used by PyAnsys libraries, such as NumPy or Matplotlib, Ansys should not address these vulnerabilities
  directly. Instead, raise an issue on the open source repository, pointing out the
  vulnerability and linking the applicable `CVE`_. At most, be mindful of deprecated packages and functions
  because they may not receive security patches and might introduce vulnerabilities into your codebase.
```
In Vale, you might have to turn off the rule for not following a colon with a capital letter. When not referring to a Python package as code, we should use the same name that the owners do in the documentation.

Reviewer 2: Thanks @PipKat for the suggestion!

Vulnerability discovery and tracking
-------------------------------------

> Leverage available security tools, such as dependency scanners or static

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Leverage available security tools like dependency scanners or static
```
To avoid to "such as" phrases in one sentence.

> analyzers (such as PyUp, Safety, or Bandit), to automatically detect and

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
analyzers (such as PyUp, Safety, or Bandit) to automatically detect and
```

remediate security vulnerabilities in Python packages and dependencies.

The PyAnsys ecosystem has implemented automated mechanisms to track and
report vulnerabilities in the codebase. These tools are intended to be integrated
into the CI/CD pipeline of the repositories.

The PyAnsys Core team has come up with a GitHub Action that can be used to
automatically check for vulnerabilities in the codebase. This action is based on
the following tools:

> - `Safety`_ - checks installed dependencies for known security vulnerabilities
> - `Bandit`_ - a tool designed to find common security issues in Python code

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- `Safety`_ : Checks installed dependencies for known security vulnerabilities.
- `Bandit`_; Attempts to find common security issues in Python code.
```

Safety addresses external dependencies, while Bandit focuses on the codebase itself.

> Both tools have been integrated into the action ``ansys/actions/check-vulnerabilities``.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Both tools have been integrated into the ``ansys/actions/check-vulnerabilities`` action.
```
Best to put the noun describing the code entity after.

.. note::

  The tools selected for the action are not definitive. The action can be modified to include
  other tools or to use different versions of the tools in the future.

> For third-party packages, the PyAnsys Core team has listed a set of excluded advisories by which
> the action will not fail. This is done to avoid false positives and to ensure that the action

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For third-party packages, the PyAnsys Core team has listed a set of excluded advisories so
that the action does not fail. This is done to avoid false positives and to ensure that the action
```

does not block the CI/CD pipeline unnecessarily. You can find the list of excluded advisories
in `the action's documentation`_.

> For potential vulnerabilities in the codebase, repositories can configure `Bandit`_ to ignore specific

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For potential vulnerabilities in the codebase, repositories can configure Bandit to ignore specific
```
You want only the first use to be a link so there aren't excessive links on the page.

> advisories. This can be due to the fact that the code is not yet ready to be fixed or that the advisory is not relevant

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
advisories. This can be due to the code not being ready yet to be fixed or that the advisory is not relevant
```

> to the codebase. However, it is important to note that ignoring advisories should be done with caution

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
to the codebase. However, it is important to note that ignoring advisories should be done with caution,
```

and developers should be aware of the potential risks involved. Furthermore, repository maintainers should
document the reasons for ignoring advisories and ensure that they are regularly reviewed to determine if they
can be addressed.

.. note::

>   An example on how to document the ignored advisories can be found in the `PyACP Security Considerations`_

Reviewer 3: Is the linked page not using sentence case headings?

  documentation page. This should be taken as a reference for documenting ignored advisories in other repositories.

.. warning::

  Testing the action locally before enabling it in the CI/CD pipeline is recommended. Information on how
  to do this can be found in `the action's documentation`_.

Vulnerability remediation and reporting
----------------------------------------

> When a vulnerability is detected, the action will fail and report the vulnerabilities found in the codebase.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
When a vulnerability is detected, the action fails and reports the vulnerabilities found in the codebase.
```

> These vulnerabilities will be reported as draft Security advisories in the repository's

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
These vulnerabilities are reported as draft Security advisories in the repository's
```
Is there a reason to capitalize "Security" here? It doesn't seem like it should be a proper noun.

Reviewer 2: The name is "Security advisory". We should probably quote it to make it clear.

Reviewer 2: I went head and removed the capitalization throught the doc. Thanks @PipKat

> Security tab. Maintainers are then responsible for reviewing the advisories and deciding whether to address

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
**Security** tab. Maintainers are then responsible for reviewing the advisories and deciding whether to address
```
Tab or page? UI elements should be formatted in bold.

Reviewer 2: Tab and page 😄 - on the UI it's a tab, but it redirects you to a different page

> them or not. These advisories are monitored by the PyAnsys Core team and will be escalated internally if they

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
them or not. These advisories are monitored by the PyAnsys Core team and are escalated internally if they
```

represent a roadblock for usage.

Repositories should also have a process in place to handle vulnerabilities that are reported by users or
other developers. For that purpose, a ``SECURITY.md`` file should be created in the root of the repository.

> This file should contain information on how to report vulnerabilities, as well as the process for handling them.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This file should contain information on how to report vulnerabilities and the process for handling them.
```

Here is an example of a ``SECURITY.md`` file:

.. code-block:: markdown

>   ## Reporting a Vulnerability

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  ## Reporting a vulnerability
```

  > [!CAUTION]

>   > Please do not report any security vulnerabilities through GitHub issues.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  > Do not use GitHub issues to report any security vulnerabilities.
```

>   If you detect a vulnerability, contact the [PyAnsys Core team](mailto:pyansys.core@ansys.com)
>   mentioning the repository and the details of your finding. The team will address it as soon as possible.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  If you detect a vulnerability, contact the [PyAnsys Core team](mailto:pyansys.core@ansys.com),
  mentioning the repository and the details of your finding. The team will address it as soon as possible.
```

>   Please provide us with the following information:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
 Provide the PyAnsys Core team with this information:
```

  - Any specific configuration settings needed to reproduce the problem
  - Step-by-step guidance to reproduce the problem
  - The exact location of the problematic source code, including tag, branch, commit, or a direct URL
  - The potential consequences of the vulnerability, along with a description of how an attacker could take advantage of the issue

Vulnerability disclosure
------------------------

When a vulnerability is detected, and it is decided to be addressed, the repository maintainers should
create a private fork of the repository and create a pull request with the fix. This pull request should be

> reviewed in depth and should include tests to ensure that the vulnerability is fixed. Once the pull request is

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
reviewed in depth and include tests to ensure that the vulnerability is fixed. Once the pull request is
```

> When a vulnerability is detected and a decision is made to address it, the repository maintainers should
> create a private fork of the repository and create a pull request with the fix. This pull request should be
> reviewed in depth and include tests to ensure that the vulnerability is fixed. Once the pull request is
> merged, the repository maintainers should create a new release with the fix and update the changelog accordingly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When a vulnerability is detected and a decision is made to address it, the repository maintainers should
create a private fork of the repository and create a pull request with the fix. Information on
how to create such a temporary fork to resolve a vulnerability can be found in `Github's documentation`_.
On opened, the pull request should be reviewed in depth and include tests to ensure that the
vulnerability is fixed. Once the pull request is merged, the repository maintainers should create a new
release with the fix and update the changelog accordingly.
```

> The release should be tagged with a new version number, and the changelog should include a note about the
> vulnerability and the fix. The note should include this information:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The release should be tagged with a new version number where the patch value has been incremented,
and the changelog should include a note about the vulnerability and the fix. The note should include
this information:
```

> vulnerability and the fix. The note should include the following information:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
vulnerability and the fix. The note should include this information:
```

- The CVE number of the vulnerability (if applicable)
- A description of the vulnerability and its potential consequences
- A description of the fix and how it addresses the vulnerability
- A link to the pull request that fixed the vulnerability

> On the other hand, the Security advisory should be published in the repository's Security tab. This advisory should include the
> same information as the changelog note. Additional information will be included in the advisory, such as the

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Additionally, the security advisory should be published on the repository's **Security** tab. This advisory should include the same information as the changelog note. In the advisory, also included the
```

> CVE number, the date of the advisory, and the status of the advisory (published, withdrawn, etc.).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
CVE number, the date of the advisory, and the status of the advisory (such as published or withdrawn).
```
Avoid Latin phrases.

A reference of a published Security advisory can be found here: `PyAnsys Geometry subprocess advisory`_.
This advisory was published in the PyAnsys Geometry repository and includes information about a vulnerability

> in which users could execute arbitrary code on the system by using one of our functions.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
in which users could execute arbitrary code on the system by using one of this library's functions.
```

Ensuring compliance across the PyAnsys ecosystem
------------------------------------------------

The PyAnsys Core team is responsible for ensuring that the ``ansys/actions/check-vulnerabilities`` action is up to date and that it is
being used in all PyAnsys repositories considered as libraries (that is, Python packages shipped to PyPI).
Repository maintainers are responsible for ensuring that the action is implemented correctly and that the
results are reviewed regularly.

.. _metapackage: https://github.com/pyansys/pyansys
.. _CVE: https://www.cve.org/
.. _Safety: https://pyup.io/safety/
.. _Bandit: https://bandit.readthedocs.io/en/latest/
.. _the action's documentation: https://actions.docs.ansys.com/version/stable/vulnerability-actions/index.html#check-vulnerabilities-action

> .. _PyACP security considerations: https://acp.docs.pyansys.com/version/dev/user_guide/security_considerations.html

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. _PyACP security considerations: https://acp.docs.pyansys.com/version/dev/user_guide/security_considerations.html
.. _Github's documentation: https://docs.github.com/en/code-security/security-advisories/working-with-repository-security-advisories/collaborating-in-a-temporary-private-fork-to-resolve-a-repository-security-vulnerability
```

Ensuring compliance across the PyAnsys ecosystem
------------------------------------------------

The PyAnsys Core team is responsible for ensuring that the ``ansys/actions/check-vulnerabilities`` action is up to date and that it is
being used in all PyAnsys repositories considered as libraries (that is, Python packages shipped to PyPI).
Repository maintainers are responsible for ensuring that the action is implemented correctly and that the
results are reviewed regularly.

.. _metapackage: https://github.com/pyansys/pyansys
.. _CVE: https://www.cve.org/
.. _Safety: https://pyup.io/safety/
.. _Bandit: https://bandit.readthedocs.io/en/latest/
.. _the action's documentation: https://actions.docs.ansys.com/version/stable/vulnerability-actions/index.html#check-vulnerabilities-action
.. _PyACP security considerations: https://acp.docs.pyansys.com/version/dev/user_guide/security_considerations.html
.. _Github's documentation: https://docs.github.com/en/code-security/security-advisories/working-with-repository-security-advisories/collaborating-in-a-temporary-private-fork-to-resolve-a-repository-security-vulnerability

> .. _PyAnsys Geometry subprocess advisory: https://github.com/ansys/pyansys-geometry/security/advisories/GHSA-38jr-29fh-w9vm

Reviewer 4: This links should be added to the ``links.rst`` file, unless  there is a reason not to do it.

Vulnerabilities
===============

.. contents::

Vulnerabilities refer to potential security flaws or weaknesses in PyAnsys packages.
Here are some examples of common vulnerabilities:
- Insufficient input validation or insecure handling of file paths can lead to unauthorized access

> - Insecure code and commands injection into the application

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Insecure code and command injection into the app
```

> - remote code execution due to deserialization of untrusted code

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Remote code execution due to deserialization of untrusted code
```

> - Disclose sensitive information due to weak exception handling

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Disclosure of sensitive information due to weak exception handling
```
To make the list entries parallel in construction

Vulnerability sources
---------------------

> - **Vulnerabilities from PyAnsys libraries code itself**

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- **Vulnerabilities from PyAnsys library code itself**
```

>   The maintainers take the responsibility to address them or not.
>   Those vulnerabilities priorities could be escalated internally if
>   they represent a roadblock for business activity.
>   For instance, if they prevent some deal closures or the delivery of products.
>   The BUs in charge of the package should handle them case by case.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  The maintainers are responsible for deciding whether to address vulnerabilities.
  The priority of vulnerabilities can be escalated internally if
  they represent a roadblock for business activity, such as.
  preventing some deal closures or the delivery of products.
  The Ansys business units in charge of the package should handle
  vulnerabilities case by case.
```
Since this documentation is outward facing, I'd avoid internal abbreviations like BU.

> - **Vulnerabilities from PyAnsys packages external dependencies (for example numpy, matplotlib)**

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- **Vulnerabilities from external PyAnsys package dependencies**
```

>   Ansys cannot address them directly. It would be an endless task.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
When vulnerabilities exist in external packages used by PyAnsys libraries, such as numpy or matplotlib, Ansys cannot address these vulnerabilities directly. It would be an endless task.
```

>   At most, be mindful of deprecated packages and functions, as they may not receive

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  At most, be mindful of deprecated packages and functions, because they may not receive
```

  security patches and might introduce vulnerabilities into your codebase.

Vulnerability discovery and tracking
-------------------------------------

Leverage available security tools, such as dependency scanners or static
analyzers (such as Pyup Safety or Bandit), to automatically detect and
remediate security vulnerabilities in Python packages and dependencies.

**Continuously monitor and assess the project's security.**
Integrate security testing into the development life cycle using
continuous integration and deployment (CI/CD) pipelines to catch
potential vulnerabilities before they reach production systems.

.. note::

>    ACE uses a tool across Ansys TFS to track vulnerabilities.

Reviewer 3: Again, since this guide is also for non-Ansys users, should we use ACE here? Perhaps we should say The Ansys Customer Excellence team" instead? And spell out TFS? Azure TFS (Team Foundation Server) ....

Author: Done.

   The same tool could be used, but dedicated to the PyAnsys open source environment.
   This means using the tool in an environment isolated from the Ansys Azure codebase.

> As a first step, these security tools are planned to be used within the `metapackage`_.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
As a first step, these security tools are planned to be used within the `metapackage`_ repository.
```

> This `metapackage`_ contains PyAnsys packages pined to a certain version of the Ansys unified install.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This repository contains PyAnsys packages pinned to a certain version of the Ansys unified installation.
```

> This provides a full overview of the public PyAnsys packages vulnerabilities status.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This provides a full overview of the vulnerability status for all public PyAnsys packages.
```

> When a flaw is detected in a PyAnsys package, an issue is opened in the repository associated to this package.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
When a flaw is detected in a PyAnsys package, an issue is opened in the repository associated with this package.
```

> Then it is up to the maintainers of this repository to handle it as described previously.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
It is then up to the maintainers of this repository to handle it as described previously.
```

  they represent a roadblock for business activity, such as.
  preventing some deal closures or the delivery of products.
  The Ansys business units in charge of the package should handle
  vulnerabilities case by case.

- **Vulnerabilities from external package dependencies**
When vulnerabilities exist in external packages used by PyAnsys libraries, such as numpy or matplotlib, Ansys cannot address these vulnerabilities directly. It would be an endless task.
  At most, be mindful of deprecated packages and functions, because they may not receive
  security patches and might introduce vulnerabilities into your codebase.

Vulnerability discovery and tracking
-------------------------------------

Leverage available security tools, such as dependency scanners or static
analyzers (such as Pyup Safety or Bandit), to automatically detect and
remediate security vulnerabilities in Python packages and dependencies.

**Continuously monitor and assess the project's security.**
Integrate security testing into the development life cycle using
continuous integration and deployment (CI/CD) pipelines to catch
potential vulnerabilities before they reach production systems.

.. note::

>    ACE uses a tool across Ansys TFS to track vulnerabilities.

Author: ```suggestion
   The Ansys Customer Excellence (ACE) team uses a tool across Azure TFS (Team Foundation Server) to track vulnerabilities.
```

Vulnerabilities
===============

.. contents::

Vulnerabilities refer to potential security flaws or weaknesses in PyAnsys packages.
Here are some examples of common vulnerabilities:
- Insufficient input validation or insecure handling of file paths can lead to unauthorized access
- Insecure code and command injection into the app
- Remote code execution due to deserialization of untrusted code
- Disclosure of sensitive information due to weak exception handling

Vulnerability sources
---------------------

- **Vulnerabilities from PyAnsys library code**
  The maintainers are responsible for deciding whether to address vulnerabilities.
  The priority of vulnerabilities can be escalated internally if

>   they represent a roadblock for business activity, such as.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
  they represent a roadblock for business activity, such as
```

>   they represent a roadblock for business activity, such as.
>   preventing some deal closures or the delivery of products.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
  they represent a roadblock for usage.
```

>   The Ansys business units in charge of the package should handle

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
  The Ansys business unit in charge of the project should handle
```

  vulnerabilities case by case.

- **Vulnerabilities from external package dependencies**
  When vulnerabilities exist in external packages used by PyAnsys libraries, such as numpy or matplotlib,

>   Ansys cannot address these vulnerabilities directly. It would be an endless task.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
  Ansys should not address these vulnerabilities directly. Instead, it is best to raise an issue on
the open source repository pointing out the vulnerability and linking the applicable CVE.
```

Reviewer 3: What is a CVE?

Reviewer 5: Ah, guess we didn't point that out. https://www.cve.org/

  At most, be mindful of deprecated packages and functions, because they may not receive
  security patches and might introduce vulnerabilities into your codebase.

Vulnerability discovery and tracking
-------------------------------------

Leverage available security tools, such as dependency scanners or static

> analyzers (such as Pyup Safety or Bandit), to automatically detect and

Author: ```suggestion
analyzers (such as PyUp, Safety or Bandit), to automatically detect and
```

remediate security vulnerabilities in Python packages and dependencies.

**Continuously monitor and assess the project's security.**
Integrate security testing into the development life cycle using
continuous integration and deployment (CI/CD) pipelines to catch
potential vulnerabilities before they reach production systems.

.. note::

   The Ansys Customer Excellence (ACE) team uses a tool across Azure TFS (Team Foundation Server) to track vulnerabilities.
   The same tool could be used, but dedicated to the PyAnsys open source environment.

>    This means using the tool in an environment isolated from the Ansys Azure codebase.

Reviewer 5: Don't mention TFS. Mention a specific tool that we can use externally.

As a first step, these security tools are planned to be used within the `metapackage`_ repository.
This repository contains PyAnsys packages pinned to a certain version of the Ansys unified installation.
This provides a full overview of the vulnerability status for all public PyAnsys packages.
When a flaw is detected in a PyAnsys package, an issue is opened in the repository associated with this package.
It is then up to the maintainers of this repository to handle it as described previously.

Finally, if a vulnerability is fixed, a patch release must be created.

Vulnerability images
====================

> To be discussed through a new meeting.

Reviewer 5: Avoid mentioning meetings.
